welcome back to another how to buy
myself Rob Allen today I'm going to talk
to you about bands there's a big variety
of band manufacturers in the world and
they've all got different ways of
producing bands the best is a dipped
process dipped and or extruded are the
two main styles extruded being a cheaper
way to produce but definitely doesn't
give you the same toughness or
elasticity the dip process is similar to
making candles it goes through a
continuous process where it gets dipped
dried dipped again creating layers this
builds up the thickness if you look at
the band once it's being cut you can see
rings similar to tree rings that proves
that it's being manufactured by the
dipping process we use a blue band this
was something we introduced a while back
to compare the difference between other
brands and to show that we were using a
higher quality band many of these days
they have copied the color to try and
follow our trend the best band material
is the natural latex in its truest form
if you look at the middle of these
they're amber that's the best possible
elasticity and durability the problem
with it though UV is bad for it
so the arctic color is more UV
protectant than anything else you cannot
get a colored band with a opaque middle
and a color on the outside if it's been
extruded so it's one way to tell quality
we have four different diameters we use
a 14 millimeter 16 millimeter 18 and a
20 millimeter the size would depend on
how you would set up your gun and what
performance is required from your bands
I'm going to show you now how to replace
your bands on your gun you first need to
get a chart see what length is suitable
for your length gun and then cut the
appropriate length quite simple cut it
either with a knife or there are
chopping boards these days that are
suitable
to join the band together we use a
wishbone that gets forced into the tube
and gets tied into position I'm not
going to show you how to do that with
one of two components one is a stainless
steel applicator the other is the same
device but more economical version which
can also house spares for the
application in the field to apply the
two you need to hold quite tight
stabilizing the bead lubricate the end
with a little bit of silicon oil and
then simply hold between the two fingers
and force into position once it's in
hold it tight pull out the tube your
bead is now set in the correct location
we now need to restrict it in this area
by tying that into position I'm now
going to show you how to tie your
wishbone into your band
use a soft braid it tends to constrict
better start by wrapping over the top
under crossover when you get to the top
take it around the other side lift that
loop that was on the top thread the tag
in under loosen off the anchored loop
take the tag in and go from the outside
back to the middle again both loose ends
are now between the two quails set it
slightly to the edge you don't want to
lose any band grab it with pliers and
slowly roll it whilst tensioning it
there you go now we need to lose the tag
ends cut them close to the rubber fluff
that loose end up apply a little heat
not too much to damage the band same
again on the other side
fluff it up apply a little heat wait for
the cool
press it down and there you have it